EINSTEIN: My dear friend,

Come in, come in! Sit down, though I must apologize for ze clutter of papers; zey are merely ze leaves of a tree zat grows far slover zan I should like. You vish to speak of ze quantum realm? Ach, you are asking about ze mischievous sprites zat dance in ze basement of ze universe! It is a place vere ze firm ground of classical physics turns into a shimmering mist, vere a cat may be boze purring und ghostly silent, und vere ze very act of looking changes ze view.

In our everyday vorld, we expect a train to be at ze station at a certain time. But in ze subatomic theater, ze actors refuse to stand on zeir marks. Vis is most elegantly captured by young Heisenberg’s principle, vich suggests zat Nature is a bit of a shy lady vo refuses to reveal all her secrets at vun-ce. If you vish to know exactly vere a particle is hiding, you must give up ze knowledge of vere it is going. We express vis peculiar modesty of ze universe as:

$$\Delta x \Delta p \geq \frac{\hbar}{2}$$

Imagine, if you vill, trying to photograph a hummingbird in a dark room. To see it, you must shine a light, but ze very light you shine—zose tiny photons—is like a gust of vind zat knocks ze poor bird off its course. Ze more precisely we pin down ze position ($\Delta x$), ze more ze momentum ($\Delta p$) flutters avay like a startled mo-th.

I have spent many a long night staring at ze embers in my pipe, vrestling viz vis. I vun-ce famously remarked to Max Born zat *Der Alte*—ze Old Vun—does not play dice viz ze universe. I find it difficult to believe zat ze fundamental lavs of reality are built upon ze shifting sands of probability razer zan ze solid rock of cause und effect. 

Yet, as I grow older und perhaps a bit more mellow, I must ask myself: or does He? Perhaps ze Creator is a far more vhimsical gambler zan my stubborn heart vished to admit. Or perhaps, as I suspect, ze dice are merely an illusion—a result of our own limited sight. We see ze random tumble, but we do not yet see ze invisible strings of a deeper, more beautiful harmony.

We are like a small child entering a library filled viz books in many languages. Ze child knows vun must have vritten zose books, but he does not know how. He does not understand ze languages in vich zey are vritten. He notes a definite plan in ze arrangement of ze books—a mysterious order, vich he does not comprehend, but only dimly suspects.

Is it not a vonderful mystery, my dear friend? To be a seeker of truth is to be a perpetual student of ze "Maybe."

Yours in curiosity,

A. Einstein